In Patina, non-trivial actions characters perform take the form of 'tasks'. Tasks each have a particular [[Success Threshold]] indicated `ST` that can depend on contextual factors. In order to complete the task, the character must achieve a total score at least equal to that threshold.

Note that in Patina, it is assumed that a character can reliably succeed at doing a thing they set out to do, if it is at all possible for that character to do that thing. What is not guaranteed is whether or not this will cost resources, come with complications or side-effects (see [[Risk Dice]]), or somehow be proactively countered by an action taken by someone or something else. **There is no roll to determine if a character fails to perform an action**. 

Tasks have an associated [[Attribute]] and (usually) also a [[Skill]] (or [[Subskill]]). A character's score at a given task is equal to their [[Skill]] plus any bonus from [[Talent]], plus additional bonus score purchased by spending points of the [[Pool]] associated with the task's [[Attribute]]. The total points spent from [[Pool]] are limited by the character's corresponding [[Attribute]], so the maximum a character can attain is [[Skill]] + [[Talent]] + [[Attribute]].

Characters may choose to take a level of [[Fatigue]] to regenerate their [[Pool]], even in the middle of spending on a specific task. [[Fatigue]] is associated with its corresponding [[Pool]], so a character may be physically exhausted (Stamina Fatigue) but mentally fresh (no Focus fatigue). Each level of standing [[Fatigue]] adds one [[Risk Dice]] for every point of associated [[Pool]] spent on a given task.

For example, a character wishes to jump over a gap. The GM judges this to be an `ST 5` [[Dexterity]]/[[Athletics]] task. The character has 3 ranks of [[Athletics]], so they need to make up 2 ranks of score in order to perform the action successfully. They can choose to spend 2 [[Stamina]] and just jump the gap. If they had one level of Stamina [[Fatigue]] from spending down their [[Stamina]] pool once already, then this would incur two [[Risk Dice]]. If they had two levels of [[Fatigue]], it would incur four [[Risk Dice]], and so on.

A character may always choose to abort a task after hearing the `ST`, but depending on the circumstances this may cause them to lose their turn in the order of actions or suffer a small delay.

[[SPECIALIZED]] tasks specifically **require** the character to have a certain rank of a [[Skill]] or [[Subskill]] to even attempt in the normal flow of events. It can be the case that even though a rank of a [[Subskill]] is required, the task still uses the character's more general [[Skill]] to actually determine their score (for example, in the case of a character learning particular combat moves from a martial art).

If a character lacks the prerequisites but has some in-character knowledge or hint at how something might be done, they can [[Improvisation|Improvise]] to try to wing it. The `ST` is based on how complete the player's comprehension is of how they are having the character figure it out - it is generally higher than the `ST` that a character with the appropriate skill would have to make, at the GM's judgment and with no guarantee of consistency or repeatability. Furthermore, the character suffers **three** additional [[Risk Dice]] per missing skill rank, minus their [[Intellect]] attribute (so a character with [[Intellect]] 4 but missing 3 ranks would suffer 9-4 = 5 risk dice).