All characters in Patina have a set of core [[Attribute]]s and corresponding resource pools. These values may have a wide degree of variation between different types of beings, but can also be advanced somewhat through spending [[XP]].

[[Attribute]]s determine their corresponding [[Pool]]s, which are spent in order to negate consequences and failures, and to augment actions. Attributes answer 'how much?' type questions about a character - how much injury can they take before passing out or dying, how fast can they move, how long can they hold their breath, how much can they lift? 

Player characters in particular have additional features which may be selected at character generation, advanced through [[XP]], or just obtained through in-game events. These are [[Skill]]s, [[Method]]s, and [[Advantage]]s.

[[Skill]]s define broad categories of competency, and reflect general skill and experience in 'types of activity' without specifically representing particular studied knowledge or techniques. For example, someone may be skilled in [[Kinaesthesia]] - that can cover acrobatics, aspects of dodging in martial arts, but having a high value in [[Kinaesthesia]] does not imply any particular study of a given acrobatic technique. Essentially with high [[Skill]] but no [[Method]]s, a character is winging it every time they attempt something. This is called making an [[Improvised Act]]. This means that whether they succeed or not, and what success means, is up in the air. However, this also is the way in which a character may try new things and explore their capabilities. 

The more specialized a [[Method]] is, the worse the gap between how difficult it is to just wing it, versus having purchased the specific ability as a [[Method]]. Difficulties here are not fixed, but can vary **wildly** based on circumstance, context, partial study, and how exactly the player explains what they are trying to do - someone trying to do a backflip cold may have a much higher target to hit than someone who watches circus performers do it successfully and then tries to imitate them. Knowing that something is possible, having observed it, having received an explanation from someone who can do it, and understanding clearly what one is trying to do all make [[Improvised Act]]s easier.

A character performing an [[Improvised Act]] spends 1 point of the appropriate [[Pool]] to make a single roll of a number of exploding d10s equal to [[Skill]]k[[Skill]]. This can be increased at a cost of 1 additional point of [[Pool]] per extra d10 rolled and kept, up to a limit of as many extra dice as the character's [[Attribute]]. [[Complication]]s on [[Improvised Act]]s occur on dice showing **1** or **2** and cannot normally be bought off (they just happen).

[[Method]]s represent specific kinds of actions that a character has practiced, studied, or otherwise internalized as discrete things. Many [[Method]]s are associated with particular sources of knowledge or training within the setting - universities, militaries, cultural traditions of different lands, even things specialized to different forms of body. Such [[Method]]s are not available for purchase without characters having appropriate backgrounds or receiving training in them. On the other hand, characters may invent their own [[Method]] whenever they succeed with an [[Improvised Act]], turning it into something replicable (there is a grace period of one session to spend the [[XP]] to do this).

[[Method]]s permit characters to 'just do things' with no question as to whether the character can manage the act. You know you can do it - what may vary instead is the effort and the consequences. [[Method]] rolls involve rolling sets of exploding d10s (this can be up to as many as [[Skill]]+[[Attribute]], but a character may roll fewer in order to proceed more cautiously) at a time to add up to a fixed target number (TN) associated with the method. Each roll, the player may choose dice to either keep or discard up to their [[Skill]], and may pay up to their [[Attribute]] in points of [[Pool]] to either keep or discard extra dice. Kept dice contribute to progress towards the TN, while any dice showing **1** or **2** which are **not** discarded add a [[Complication]] to the eventual success, or otherwise increase the severity of existing [[Complication]]s. The character may abort the [[Method]] at any time, but any [[Complications]] which were not paid off still occur.

For example, a character wants to [[Scry Connection]] on the information associated with an old doll they have. This has a TN of 30. The character has a [[Logic]] Skill rating of 3, and a [[Mind]] Attribute of 4. The first minute they spend scrying they roll 7 d10s and obtain **1, 3, 4, 6, 6, 8, 9**. They choose to buy off the **1** and keep the **8** and **9** for a total of **17** - not enough to finish, but making progress. The next minute of scrying they roll and obtain **2, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13** (from an exploding dice) - they can buy off the two [[Complication]]s and keep the 13 thanks to their skill of 3, meaning that they succeed after two minutes of effort with no [[Complication]]s and no [[Focus]] spent.

If the character had been in a hurry, they could have spent 2 [[Focus]] in the first roll to keep **3,6,6,8,9 = 32** and succeed with a [[Complication]], or spent 3 [[Focus]] to succeed without the [[Complication]].