When a character rolls [[Risk Dice]], the result may include one or more complications. These are generally determined freeform by the GM, but either the GM or player can choose to roll for a complication on this chart with a d8 to get a bit more guidance. Inappropriate results should be discarded. The results are scaled based on the total number of [[Complication|Complications]] rolled.

1. **Inflicting Conditions**: A general rule of thumb is that a single [[Complication]] might inflict a **short-term condition** at Severity 1, while additional [[Complication|Complications]] could raise the Severity of that condition, or inflict a **long-term condition** one Severity rating lower.  These sorts of sources are treated as having [[Penetration]] `3+Complications` when it comes to [[Resistance]]. Common **short-term** conditions here are [[Off-balance]], [[Pain]], [[Disoriented]], [[Distracted]], [[Numb]], [[Nauseated]], and [[Winded]]. Even though [[Stunned]] is **short-term**, it should be considered to be one [[Complication]] worse than other outcomes due to completely denying actions for its duration. [[Vulnerable]] should also be considered one level worse, due to its potential seriousness. Common **long-term** conditions are [[Injury]] and [[Bleed]], with head injuries and [[Organ Damage]] counting as one level worse due to their seriousness.

2. **Environmental Effects**: A single [[Complication]] may involve small damage or modification of a character's immediate environment - they knocked something over and its now in the way, they destroyed some furniture or fragile objects as part of their action, etc. With two [[Complication|Complications]], modifications to the environment can gain some urgency and demand response to prevent them from getting worse - something ends up on fire, something ends up flooding the area, a support is weakened and may collapse. Three or more [[Complication|Complications]] increase the urgency, scale, and potential harm. Ambient environmental hazards such as unsprung traps may make this kind of result more dangerous, even for a fixed number of [[Complication|Complications]].

3. **Effects on Gear**: A single [[Complication]] will not ever directly render a character's gear permanently destroyed or irretrievably lost, but it may cause an object to be dropped or fumbled, or cause one level of damage to an object or worn equipment. Serious damage to an object, or dropping multiple objects becomes possible at 2 [[Complication|Complications]], and an object-related task at 3 or more risks destroying any tool being used and maybe destroying or creating a permanent flaw of some kind in whatever is being worked on or interacted with, as long as that does not directly negate the character's intended action. Dropping is more common with [[Dexterity]] based acts, while damage is more common with [[Might]] based acts.

4. **Effects on Positioning**: The most frequent [[Complication]] for physical tasks is that the character ends up having to move to complete the task, or otherwise ends up somewhere other than they intended due to slipping or tripping or falling. A rough scaling is that this may displace a character 2 meters per [[Complication]] and may or may not render them [[Prone]]. With 2+, the character may end up in a nearby environmental hazard - in a fire pit, falling off a cliff, etc.

5. **Blocked/Altered Actions**: A [[Complication]] may make certain categories of actions harder through rendering the character off-balance, out of position, or suffering sprains or weaknesses in particular ways. A single [[Complication]] will generally block a category of action (such as dodges or counterattacks) for a single **interval** appropriate to the task - usually 10 seconds for an action scene. At 2+, this may be blocked until the character can rest and receive treatment. Alternately, for things with [[Cumulative Difficulty]], each [[Complication]] might add 1 level to the difficulty count

6. **Drag Someone Else In**: An attack might clip someone nearby. A character tripping over themselves in a crowded room might accidentally punch someone. In some way, one or more extra (innocent or not) targets are added or an extra action is taken by accident towards someone unintentional. At one [[Complication]], this secondary action is much weaker than whatever the character was intending to do, maybe even just cosmetic - a mere scratch from a dagger intended to stab someone, etc. At two [[Complications]], the misdirect can be as serious as the original action. At 3+, more targets could get drawn in, the nature of the action could be modified to be worse (you're trying to throw a dart and accidentally hit someone in the eye), or additional effects from other categories could apply (such as accidentally throwing your weapon).

7. **Modifying Success**: In the case of extended things like invention, crafting, bushwhacking a path, etc, a common form of [[Complication]] is to change exactly what the character gets at the end of it all. An item may not have exactly the shape or function desired, or it may have some downside. A path may be longer than anticipated or have treacherous bits or end at a different position than intended. For more esoteric but instantaneous actions, a magical manipulation could do something extra beyond what was intended.

8. **Overexertion**: In lieu of any of these (or some more contextual thing) being appropriate, the character may just lose 2 points of the associated [[Pool]] per [[Complication]] they roll. They've over-exerted themselves and burned more energy than they intended on the action. This can inflict additional levels of [[Fatigue]].