In this day and age, under the rising star of the Empire, it is held that there is but Science and Superstition. Folk tales of non-human creatures, magic, and myth are seen as mere fancy.

Many are true. There is largely no 'masquerade' in this setting, but the world is not so interconnected yet, many powers and entities are highly local in their range, and the separation of imperial high society from the lower classes supports a willful ignorance and rejection of evidence coming from the 'wrong type' of sources. 

At character creation, characters may have one supernatural element that they are deeply involved in - either a 'practice' or a 'nature'. In either case, this usually means also being a member of an underground or secret society associated with the supernatural. Note that being a [[Dynamicist]] is **also** a supernatural origin (specifically a practice), even if it is recognized by Imperial society as Science; the corresponding society is the [[Royal Academy]].

While a character cannot generally have two different innate supernatural natures (no vampire werewolves, etc), they may take the [[Double Origins]] Advantage to possess both a supernatural type and a separate supernatural practice. 

For both natures and practces there are broad categories within which are specific forms. Characters must pick a specific form, but ultimately everything within the same category is somewhat interoperable and it may be possible to gain powers or use techniques associated with others in the shared category.
### Natures

- [[Shared Soul]] - A category of supernatural origin in which the character's soul is extended across multiple [[Phasic]] layers, tied to potentially multiple different physical bodies in different worlds. Depending on the specifics this may manifest as [[Lycanthropy]], [[Mirror Men]], [[Medium|Mediums]], through [[Bonded Familiar|Bonded Familiars]], or in the form of [[Reincarnation]]. Common features of this sort of supernatural type are the ability to exchange attributes, conditions, belongings, senses, and even to physically exchange ones-self with the other bodies sharing a soul. Shared Souls gain the [[Resonance]] attribute which powers their abilities.

- [[Destined]] - A category of supernatural origin in which the character's personal timeline and history involve reversals of cause and effect in some way, leading to the common phenomenon of luck and chance behaving strangely around them. This can occur in the form of [[Fatespawn|Fate's Pawns]], [[Prophets]], and [[Wyrd|Wyrds]]. The common feature of these types is to be able to in some way determine aspects of the future that 'must happen', causing probability to distort itself in order to bring about those aspects. Destined gain the [[Destiny]] attribute which powers their abilities.

- [[Outsider]] - These are beings from fundamentally alien places who drag their own rules with them into the world, or those born of their direct influence and alteration. [[The Merry Ones]] are fey beings playing at human, while [[Warped]] are humans (or other creatures) modified by the manipulations of the [[Genius Loci]]. Outsiders gain the [[Presence]] attribute, which is the degree to which their presence distorts the world.

- [[Thoughtforms]] - This is the category of those who interface in unusual ways with the [[Information Layer]] of reality as part of their underlying nature. [[Glitch|Glitches]] happen when this is a misalignment, [[Avatar|Avatars]] are people whose minds are particularly receptive to the collective beliefs of others, and [[Doppelgangers]] are beings who live in the information shadows of others - temporarily or permanently stepping into their roles to survive and thrive. [[Thoughtforms]] gain the [[Enlightenment]] attribute which represents their access to the Information Layer.
### Practices
- [[Psionics]] - Metaphysically, this covers all forms of direct access to the [[Information Layer]] by a sapient mind. Practically, it is shattered into dozens of narrow disciplines as people discover and discover parts of the whole of its potential - [[Memetics]], [[Divination]], [[Mentalism]], [[Psychometry]], [[Walkers of the Way]], etc. All approaches to this practice unlock the [[Enlightenment]] attribute.
- [[Fateweaving]] - The presence of [[Relic Matter]] in the world means that time is sometimes a loop rather than an arrow. Various supernatural practices involve manipulating the properties of [[Relic Matter]] in all manner of different ways in order to make some futures more likely and others less likely. 
- [[Animism]] - Rather than acting through one's own power and agency, many forms of supernatural practice involve entreaties to [[Entity|Entities]]. Usually this is a purely local art, but in some cases an Entity might travel with a practitioner, or might have ways that its reach can be expanded to where a practitioner goes. Some Entities are just expansive enough to be everywhere. There are generally entangled [[Phase|Phasic]] and [[Information Layer]] components to [[Animism]] - the Entities are extended through a shallow or deep Elsewhere, and in lieu of a physical bridging the signals that draw their attention and action act via information contagion. 
- [[Dynamics]] - Considered a technology and a science rather than a 'supernatural power' by the Empire, [[Dynamics]] is the recent discovery of an apparently general theory linking physical interactions to a kind of 'addressing scheme' - positive particles send their messages to negative particles to draw them, masses send their messages to other masses, and so on. According to the science of [[Dynamics]], this can be generalized, to make things which transmit their forces to designated receivers across the so-called [[Aether]]. This sort of power is almost always used via technological devices, complex engineered structures and machines, and the like - not just via act of will. As such, all Imperial characters potentially have access to the products of [[Dynamics]] even if they are not a 'practitioner' of [[Dynamics]] per se.