Folk tales tell of those bitten by wolves becoming wolves themselves or other such things suggesting an infectious and corruptive origin. The reality of it is much more subtle. 

Lycanthropy is at its most broad a condition that occurs when someone's soul first forms in a way that leaves it extended across parallel layers of reality, shared between the primary host and one or more secondary creatures.

Lycanthropy

 -The character is linked with an animal alter-ego, and can draw upon it to gain the attributes and abilities of an animal - ultimately, to the theoretical extent of creating a Platonic ideal paragon form of that animal's full evolutionary potential. While popular depictions focus on full body transformation, lycanthropy can be as subtle as shared dreams or brief glimmers  of sensory overlay - full shifting is an art that must be mastered and used with intent. Lycanthropy in this setting is not a transmissible disease or a curse, even though people still believe it to be. Rather, it is a spiritual condition in which the Lycanthrope's soul is extended across a separate layer of reality. This can happen rarely by chance, but much more often if the fetus is exposed to phasic energies during the phase of its development in which it begins to aggregate its soul. Secretive communities of lycanthropes evoke this intentionally via the use of herbal medicines grown in areas with a high concentration of phasic contamination. 
- [[Possessed]] - While in common culture this would be a departed spirit returning and taking over someone's body, in practice this is really a much more mild condition - colonization by a residual non-sapient [[Thanatoform]] that didn't end up merged into the [[Great Mind]] of the [[Sephrel Network]]. This does in practice make it easier for the Possessed to perceive and read out information traces from the recently deceased - works great for mummery if you want to pretend to be a medium. The Possessed perceive the [[Information Layer]] a bit differently than others, which can make it easier to get started with broader psionic powers - however, it also presents a risk as their interface goes through a network that is occupied and in use by a [[Great Mind]] and its cohort. If they dive deep they might find entities presenting themselves as 'ancient spirits'. Some of these may be legitimately helpful and reveal deep secrets, while others may be un-exploded psychic ordnance in the war between the [[Seamind]] and [[Melivirin]], and others yet may be apostles of [[Melivirin]] trying to exploit the Possessed to continue the war on the modern world. 