The world of Patina contains many unusual forces and entities, most of which are unknown or considered pure superstition or fringe beliefs to the science of the Empire. Sometimes, people learn to live with these forces in ways that allow them to do and accomplish things others cannot.

Mechanically speaking, the supernatural's touch on a character is separated into categories of 'being' and 'doing'. 

### Being

A character might for example **be** a [[Lycanthrope]] or a [[Possessed]] or things along those lines - these are intrinsic aspects of the character, are generally somewhat mutually exclusive, and cannot simply be emulated by others. These are also things which largely go with a character wherever they go - such things are fundamentally part of who a character is. The scale of the supernatural influence in these cases directly ties to something on the character sheet, and could differ from character to character. Someone who is not a [[Lycanthrope]] simply cannot use the powers that a [[Lycanthrope]] can - they cannot advance the same skills and special attributes, they don't have an animal alter-ego to draw upon, etc. Choosing to **be** something other than human is the fastest route to make contact with the supernatural, and from a metagame perspective means walking a pre-existing path - one gets immediate innate access to a slice of the whole truth of things, but specifically that slice.

A character may start with one of the following Supernatural Types, at a cost of initial XP. This is a birth option and becomes quite fundamental to a character, so it may only be changed via special request to the GM - though as always, if something isn't working out, we'll work to fix it.

- [[Lycanthrope]] - The character is linked with an animal alter-ego, and can draw upon it to gain the attributes and abilities of an animal - ultimately, to the theoretical extent of creating a Platonic ideal paragon form of that animal's full evolutionary potential. While popular depictions focus on full body transformation, lycanthropy can be as subtle as shared dreams or brief glimmers  of sensory overlay - full shifting is an art that must be mastered and used with intent. Lycanthropy in this setting is not a transmissible disease or a curse, even though people still believe it to be. Rather, it is a spiritual condition in which the Lycanthrope's soul is extended across a separate layer of reality. This can happen rarely by chance, but much more often if the fetus is exposed to phasic energies during the phase of its development in which it begins to aggregate its soul. Secretive communities of lycanthropes evoke this intentionally via the use of herbal medicines grown in areas with a high concentration of phasic contamination. 
- [[Possessed]] - While in common culture this would be a departed spirit returning and taking over someone's body, in practice this is really a much more mild condition - colonization by a residual non-sapient [[Thanatoform]] that didn't end up merged into the [[Great Mind]] of the [[Sephrel Network]]. This does in practice make it easier for the Possessed to perceive and read out information traces from the recently deceased - works great for mummery if you want to pretend to be a medium. The Possessed perceive the [[Information Layer]] a bit differently than others, which can make it easier to get started with broader psionic powers - however, it also presents a risk as their interface goes through a network that is occupied and in use by a [[Great Mind]] and its cohort. If they dive deep they might find entities presenting themselves as 'ancient spirits'. Some of these may be legitimately helpful and reveal deep secrets, while others may be un-exploded psychic ordnance in the war between the [[Seamind]] and [[Melivirin]], and others yet may be apostles of [[Melivirin]] trying to exploit the Possessed to continue the war on the modern world. 
- [[Mirror Man]] - Occasionally a doctor will inform someone that they will be having twins, but only one child is born. Some times, that might mean that a Mirror Man has been born. A Mirror Man effectively has two bodies separated by a thin phasic layer. By honing their awareness of the other body, they can displace the two bodies a limited amount relative to each-other, have one 'pull' the other, or even move small objects across the phasic layer. It's no wonder that many end up in the underworld, as they make the perfect thieves - able to scout locations without being seen, make objects vanish from within locked containers, and do other similar trickery. It is even possible for some to share injuries between their two bodies to lessen them - allow their other heart to pump blood for both bodies, etc. They also have enormous appetites - they are eating for two, after all.
- [[Fatespawn]] (Fate's Pawn?) - Those with the forture or misfortune to, in some possible future, stand at the crux of events and influence things relevant to one of the [[Genius Loci]]'s manipulations of time and fate. This gives a character a certain ontological weight which is often largely unnoticeable, but practically means that things will go just well enough for them to make their future appointment with destiny - which may not even ever happen as they may be a third order fallback plan or something like that. A Fatespawned who learns of their nature however can lean on this weight to manipulate events by placing themselves in a game of chicken against the universe. However, there is a limit of unlikeliness of events before it becomes easier for the [[Genius Loci]] to just find another vector of action, at which point the universe may call the Fatespawned's bluff. Playing a Fatespawned means at its base being the lucky one who escapes certain death and disaster, and ultimately growing into the ability to manipulate random events by putting yourself in their way. Master your powers and take control of your own possibilities before you meet your destiny and find that fate no longer needs you.
- [[Glitch]] - Glitches don't interface correctly with the [[Information Layer]] of reality - everything from divinatory practices to mundane record keeping just tends to shift and screw up their information. Film will show a smudge or chemical burn where they stand, wax recordings will capture garbled static when they speak, even plaster molds of their body will warp or fail to solidify correctly. A Glitch can usually be remembered by individuals, especially those they interact with frequently, but society's collective memory fails to grab hold of them. They're also nearly a perfect counter for memetic effects and psionic powers - such things find nothing to grab onto; however, in turn, Glitches cannot use such powers themselves, not really. But a Glitch can learn how to contaminate records, even minds, with their un-recordable information. And at the extreme ends of mastery, a Glitch may realize that even the chain of cause and effect is a 'record' of their existence that can be fuzzed, though in leaning into that too deeply they may forget themselves.
- [[The Merry Ones]] - You were never human, but they seemed fun, and so you let yourself forget your greater self for a time to join in the revelry. But imitation is ever imperfect, and your greater mind is an improv actor willing to run with the mistakes rather than pretend they never happened. The apparent bodies of Merry Ones are not truly there - they are effectively projections - but the greater self has rules it wishes to play by which may go against the interests of the role that they find themselves playing. When you are stabbed, you bleed, maybe even die - failing to do this would be rude to the efforts of your assailant after all! But what happens off-screen and out of view, well, things can be fudged for sake of a good story. Playing a Merry One means playing the role as the character - the greater mind is not really accessible and honestly is completely incapable of being interested enough in whatever stakes are going on to break character; yes, even if the planet is about to be destroyed or time itself unwound. However, the greater mind will happily try to provide the necessary special effects to make a chosen role work even as that rails against sense and reality. These effects are limited to the projection - generally the space immediately around and including the Merry One's body - with the exception that others may, through proper rite and words, 'willingly place themselves under the Merry One's power'. To do so is to die and be replaced with a projection, that may too be altered to suit the play. This is not done or offered maliciously or greedily - the greater mind doesn't want to kill and subsume, nor does it want to not kill and subsume - but if someone is willing to offer up their all to enrich the play, it is willing in turn to honor that dedication in the way it can. At the point where this particular rite could plausibly come up, the role has made enough mistakes to allow for in-character awareness of the existence of the greater mind, so a player is not obligated to e.g. try to trick people into it to sell their performance.
- [[Precursor]] - The [[Inner Custodian]] continues to direct the evolution of multicellular life towards its ultimate ends. You are a prototype of a new iteration of humanity, an idea hyper-evolved in a narrow direction to see what's there and whether it should ultimately become part of the whole. If this stops at character creation, you've got some nifty power or ability that most people don't, perhaps along with some visibly odd characteristics, and that's it. But there's potential beyond that - your features are not just from pure genetic tampering, but are actively produced and maintained via epigenetic modification by [[Tychorex]] nanites. Find the path to influencing, even reprogramming them and you might be able to direct your evolution within your own lifetime. Mechanically, this is largely a one-off power for a one-off XP expenditure, with the potential for eventually unlocking a subsystem via in-character actions. However, unlocking that subsystem is not automatic or guaranteed - doing so would be a large-scale racial goal on par with the sorts of things BBEGs get up to in the superhero genre - so don't take this if the initial powers you can pick from aren't appealing.
### Doing

On the other hand, there are things which anyone could in principle **do** which would just work because of the fundamental nature of the world or the context the characters are in. A summoning ritual may work equally well for a totally normal laborer off of the street, a professor of antiquities, a [[Mirror Man]], or a [[Fatespawn]] - assuming they perform the ritual correctly, in the right place and time, and so on. While these things are often going to require certain [[Skill|Skills]] or [[Subskill|Subskills]] to pull off, the power and scale of the effect is not directly proportional to anything about the character. Furthermore, these things can often be added to a character's repertoire or expanded upon without directly spending XP by learning of them through study of the world (for example, via the [[Research Subsystem]]). 

Many of these things that anyone can do are however very local or conditional. A priest of an island god may call upon it to perform miracles, but in this setting that god's influence is likely to be limited to just one island or just one area. While the underlying principles that the deity uses to create the miracle may be general, that doesn't make those underlying mechanisms immediately accessible to someone studying and copying the priest's actions. And one might need to effectively **be** (or become) an entity of the same type in order to tap into the more universal principles that the god itself is using to create the miracle.

Such advancements of local knowledge towards more general truths are a big theme of a Patina campaign. As such, direct access to the general forces is very limited at character creation. While this rulebook does describe the setting's metaphysics, it is up to the players to build the bridge from the specific to the general if they wish to do so. 