You were never human, but they seemed fun, and so you let yourself forget your greater self for a time to join in the revelry. But imitation is ever imperfect, and your greater mind is an improv actor willing to run with the mistakes rather than pretend they never happened. 

The apparent bodies of Merry Ones are not truly there - they are effectively projections - but the greater self has rules it wishes to play by which may go against the interests of the role that they find themselves playing. When you are stabbed, you bleed, maybe even die - failing to do this would be rude to the efforts of your assailant after all! But what happens off-screen and out of view, well, things can be fudged for sake of a good story. 

Playing a Merry One means playing the role as the character - the greater mind is not really accessible and honestly is completely incapable of being interested enough in whatever stakes are going on to break character; yes, even if the planet is about to be destroyed or time itself unwound. However, the greater mind will happily try to provide the necessary special effects to make a chosen role work even as that rails against sense and reality. 

These effects are limited to the projection - generally the space immediately around and including the Merry One's body - with the exception that others may, through proper rite and words, 'willingly place themselves under the Merry One's power'. To do so is to die and be replaced with a projection, that may too be altered to suit the play. This is not done or offered maliciously or greedily - the greater mind doesn't want to kill and subsume, nor does it want to not kill and subsume - but if someone is willing to offer up their all to enrich the play, it is willing in turn to honor that dedication in the way it can. At the point where this particular rite could plausibly come up, the role has made enough mistakes to allow for in-character awareness of the existence of the greater mind, so a player is not obligated to e.g. try to trick people into it to sell their performance.
